Nov. 1982Hobbyist Turns Pro   I bought my Apple over three years ago as a  new toy. I didn't know a thing about hard, soft,  and firmware. Learning Finnish was easier than  learning assembly language. The hobby soon     turned into a small (micro) business, and in-  stead of learning how to program I bought pro-  grams to use. I became a user-hobbyist. One of  the first things I wanted to do with my Apple  was to maintain a mailing label database for  the local Mensa chapter. With more than  fifteen hundred names, the task seemed insur-  mountable.   Along came Bob Clardy and Synergistic at  the West Coast Computer Faire two years ago.  He had a neat little program called Mail List  Database for sale for thirty dollars. A quick  look at the manual and a demonstration of the  fast sort on a binary file produced a sale. That  program turned out to be one of my most used.  It took three of us seven days to enter the mem-  bers' mailing information onto three disks.  Later, Synergistic came out with a sort/merge  utility for the program. This allowed us to  merge up to five files into a zip sort. The time  required each month to enter new members and  make changes of address was less than one hour  because of the ease of entry and the error-free  operation of the program. The runoff of labels  also was fast, considering the old printer used.   The time came when we outgrew the need  for labels, but we did need to maintain a local  roster as we made print-outs available to local  members once a year. Early in the game, I wrote  to Bob Clardy about the possibihty of printing  the information on a single line, roster style. He  wrote back some time later with a few listing  changes, and I had a roster program. An up-  dated Mail List Database has incorporated this  feature. Because of our long-distance customiz-  ing sessions, I actually learned a good deal  about Basic programming.   But the best was yet to come! Late last sum-  mer several of us in our group wanted to start  publishing a literary magazine. The first couple  of months we generated labels as we had be-  fore. But we foresaw the need to keep track of  subscription numbers, expiration dates, and so  on. Another letter to Bob produced much help  on customizing the program. Our Subscription  Mail Label Database now consists of subscrib-  ers entered in order of subscription, a field with  the expiration date, the usual name and ad-     dress fields, and an extra long zip field to cover  foreign subscribers' country names.   We now have more than five hundred sub-  scribers and it takes less than two hours each  month to update, sort by zip, and print labels. I  have sent our aggregate customizations to Bob  Clardy, and he mentioned at this year's fair that  a technical note will soon be available to all reg-  istered owners that details these changes. In all  the time that I've been using this (steadily over  two years) I have not had one single problem  with the software. It is completely listable, mod-  ifiable, and trouble-free. If this isn't testimony  to the advantages of unlocked disks, I don't  know what is. All the people I talked to at  Synergistic were extremely willing to help, and  my letters were answered promptly. This is not  to imply that other publishers haven't been  helpful, but I want to underscore my feelings  when I get three hundred dollars' worth of serv-  ice and program from only thirty dollars.  Tod Wicks, Palo Alto, CA